From One note

4 rules
Martin fowlers
-- passes tests - what you've done works (get requirements)
-- reveals intention - it is more important to write understandable rather than professor's good grade
-- no duplication - DRY - can't maintain in lots of places. But sometimes you don't know the duplication exists, and sometimes goes against reveals intention
	- RUG - Repeat until good
-- fewest elements (variables, decisions, and loops)
 - bugs scale linearly. Write simplest thing you can. Even if slower code


12factor.net
	- How to deploy modern software

Apire is analogous to docker compose
Aspire.dev

Ctrl k , ctrl d - for reformatting


Creates/stops instance of db by default every time: .WithLifetime(ContainerLifetime.Persistent);


F12 shows definition

Left click dependencies to add dependencies between projects. Then reference them in the code. Ie for ServiceDefaults (logging)


Unit of distribution in .NET is a "Assembly" ~ Jar
1:1 assembly per project, solution just a way to organize these (doesn't mean anything to .NET)

Assembly made of:
Intermediate language (IL) ~ java bytecode
Metadata - db of types

We use prometheus, grafana, splunk for logging and tracing

Open telemetry - industry standard to look more into?

Resources - scheme (https/http), origin or authority - name of the website (DNS), the path/endpoint

Representation - ie JSON you send, can be anything

Methods: GET POST PUT DELETE  - are there others?

The who is always answered in the auth header in http. I have always put it in uuid

Documents vs collections - documents have identifier in URI, vs collections a list of documents
	- Urls are logged in a lot of places
	- Make url to have authorization header be the identifier
		○ Bearer tokens - fake for a while

Rest thing plugin - auto send this test in md - manual testing to test endpoint
```http
GET endpoint
…
```

Build stateless processes, port binding - 12 factor

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc2616
https://roy.gbiv.com/pubs/dissertation/fielding_dissertation.pdf
REST in Practice (O'Reilly) -  but dated
REST is loose coupling, links but a lot of software is not rest because it doesn't need links

2 ways to get web server to pass requests to code
	- Old way is controllers
	- New way is controller-less minimal APIs (new to me)

HTTP - more of a OS thing

SOAP - created by industry - XML - .NET was created with this in mind

WCF - windows communication foundation - expensive to update - tool simplification
	- WCF, XML are being upgraded - avoid this

DHH - created Ruby on Rails

ASP.NET - democratize web design - MVC vs web api are very similar
	- Does this apply to Spring Boot?

401 - no authorization
403 - wrong authorization
404 - not found
400 - formatted wrong


.NET - not as strict with namespaces as Java where it has to line up with folders

Program.cs is the main psvm
 - when compiled will put psvm around it


IEndpointRouteBuilder - implemented by App

Ctrl . Will show error handling for red squiggly


.NET chose not to do Java exception because a lot of people do catch all

Ctrl . For moving a class into another file